# Overall Transmission Structure
## Transmission Scheme
NR uses OFDM as the baseline uplink transmission scheme with the possibility for complementary DFT-precoded OFDM.
<br>
**But**
<br>
The use of DFT-precoding also has several drawbacks 
  
- Spatial multiplexing(MIMO) receivers become more complex. It becomes important when supporting uplink spatial multiplexing
- Maintaining symmetry between uplink and downlink transmission schemes is in many cases beneficial, something which is lost with an DFT-precoded uplink.
    - Symmetry의 장점 중 하나가 Sidelink transmission
- DFT-precoded OFDM implies scheduling restrictions as only contiguous allocations in the frequency domain are possible.
<br><br>

One important aspect of OFDM is the selection of the numerology, in particular the subcarrier spacing and the cycle prefix length.
- A large subcarrier spacing is beneficial from a frequency-error perspective as it reduces the impact from frequency errors and phase noise
- The selection of the subcarrier spacing therefore needs to carefully balance overhead from the cyclic prefix against sensitivity to Doppler spread/shift and phase noise.
- NR is designed to support a wide range of deployment scenarios, from large cells with sub-1 GHz carrier frequency up to mm-wave deployments with very wide spectrum allocations.
  - NR therefore supports a flexible numerology with a range of subcarrier spacings, based on scaling a baseline subcarrier spacing of 15kHz.
    - 왜 15KHz일까? <br>
    LTE, LTE-based NB-IoT와 같이 coexist하기 때문  &rarr; ___Backward compatibility___
 
The base time unit $T_c$ can thus be seen as the sampling time of an FFT-based transmitter/receiver implementation for a subcarrier spacing of 480KHz with an FFT size equal to 4096

앞에서 언급한 바와 같이 subcarrier spacing을 15kHz로 설정한 것은 LTE와의 coexist 때문임<br>
Efficient coexistence를 위해 time domain에서도 일치해야하는데, 이 때문에 NR slot structore for 15kHz는 LTE subframe structure와 동일함. <br><br>
**This means that the cycic prefix for the first and eighty symbols are somewhat larger than for the other symbols.**
- The slot structure for higher subcarrier spacings in NR is then derived by scaling this baseline structure by powers of two.
  <br><br><br>

The useful symbol time $T_u$ depends on the subcarrier spacing, with the overall OFDM symbol time being the sum of the useful symbol time and the cycle-prefix length $T_{CP}$.

LTE에서는 두 개의 cyclic prefix가 존재하였음.<br>
1. Normal cyclic prefix
2. Extended cyclic prefix
    - However, Extended cyclic prefix was not used in practical deployments
With this in mind, NR defines a normal cyclic prefix only, with the exception of 60 kHz subcarrier spacing.

<br><br>

## Time-Domain Structure
